Problem statement: How do you think developer productivity/happiness/effectiveness is related to quality? 
Provide examples of changes to developer effectiveness and how that did, or might have, improved or decreased "quality".

My answer:

This is, of course, a very large subject and I will try to break it down into smaller parts to give more insightful answer.
I think developer productivity is based mostly on their experience and also on their overall satisfaction and dedication to the project. 
I assume that good relationships within the development team, trust in the employer, and the belief that their work is "important" are the factors 
that positively improve developer happiness and through this, it will improve their productivity. Ideas like: pair programming, doing code reviews of 
their code, joining training sessions or doing some technical courses would help to improve their overall experience in development and therefore 
their productivity. 
Happiness could be increased by following good collaboration practices and improving relationships within teams. Developers not only 
collaborate with other developers but also with QA engineers, Product Owners, sometimes with stakeholders or people from different teams too.
Having a good soft skills is also a requirement to make the life of a developer "easier" and improve their happiness. Soft skill trainings, 
retrospectives with the teams (which would result in improvements for the whole team), giving feedback about their work in professional manner,
rewarding their achievements (not only financialy, but also with some company events, praising by managers, sending them to some trainings etc.) 
- those are few ideas on how to improve happiness. Going to trainings, company meetings or holidays - those are also important to maintain a good 
work/life balance which is also  a factor that affects developer happiness. To summarize, the more productive and "happy engineer", who 
collaborates better with the team and stakeholders will provide better overall quality to theproject.

Developer effectivenes I would understand as something like "clean code" (that is easy for others to understand) and a bug rate (how many 
defects are being found while testing their code). The "effectivnes" of the developer would be based on the two factors I have described above: 
productivity and happiness taken together, and it would be reflected as the "quality" of their work. Meaning, that the more "effective" developer 
would provide increased quality to the whole dev team. We can measure developer effectivenes via different methods, for example: number of commits, 
average commit size, time needed to review their code, number of code reviews needed and/or frequency of those. 

Having the "right" ammount spent on code reviews is in my opinion important. Because some od the developers (same as everone else I believe) 
do not like being "criticized" and code reviews of their work could sometimes be perceived as such. Doing pair reviews (where developer presents his 
code to others), or even doing pair programming in the first place would be a better idea instead of just asking for a review after the feature branch 
code is ready for review. We have to keep in mind that people are different and might prefer different methods. Doing too many reviews and pointing
out "problems" in the code, can be problematic if would be done in improper way which could "offend" the author and in the end it would decrease the 
"happiness" and thus the "quality" of their work. I have even experienced situation, where developers would not ask certain people for code
reviews (even tough the person has a lot of experience) because he would rather just merge his code and get approval from someone else. 

In the end, the ongoing process of developing and improving both technical and people skills is the most important factor in increasing the 
effectiveness and from this, increasing the "quality" of the developers work. Good relationships within a team, and especially good relationships
with a QA are also important factors. 
